Welcome to using texture's versus geometry.
So this video you will understand that you will need both.
The texture has to exist on something.
You'll see that geometry is full detail and textures are full.
The illusion of detail and realize that the appropriate combination of both is used to create models.
So what do we mean by that so we have two images here.
I use the texture which is on the right to create the polygon model that's on the left.
Now looking at these two photos you can see that one is a plain green and one has a bit of colour to
it etc..
But essentially they're both now the same.
I could have gone in and made a bit more detail but I thought that was good enough for this demonstration
of course.
Can you guess how many polygons are on these.
Probably not.
Here we go.
There are 400 odd polygons on the one on the left and the one on the right.
Is just the texture is full polygons So there's a performance boost to be had there.
Now having a look at a rabbit scene will be getting to this in a moment.
This is me using a mesh for the grass and this is me using the texture for the grass.
As you can see there's a huge difference straight away.
Now what I did do after seeing this and this was I went Well hang on a minute my blades of grass here
are far too short and fat to make a direct comparison to here and also their luminous green which doesn't
help at all.
So I put together this particular one which uses a different colour set and as you can see not only
has the cone disappeared then the lighting change ever so slightly but it's much much better.
Quite close to this one but still not quite there because of all the different colour variants and of
course you can spend a bit more time modelling to get that grass much better.
Now a warning to those that are using their graphics card to render in windows especially there.
Basically if anything takes more than two seconds you'll get a r has been detected.
Application must close which is very very annoying.
Now I'm not going to show you directly how to fix this because it's mucking about with your registry.
All the alternative is to use a p you to do your rendering Now if you're s.p. was really really slow
compared to your graphics card you'll want to go in and make the changes and I'll show you how to do
that in a few moments or tell you where to go and they've got really detailed instructions for that.
So in summary if you get the tedi are error when you're using your GP for rendering I think it only
applies to end video.
But it might also apply to a T.
But I don't know if the solution is the same but you either use your cpq or try the fix that's listed
on the screen now.
And certainly if you've got the lecture notes you can click on that link as well.
Or you can go ahead and type in now.
Lots of texture on top of one another does work well as you can see the same basically the same scene.
The set up time was a lot less with the texture than it was with the rendering itself.
The rendering took significantly longer.
When I was using textures rather than geometry so just a reminder of the scene that we're talking about
here.
This one here.
Guess how long this portion of it took when I was rendering at 10 ATP.
So not this resolution misses half of 720.
So is tiny.
For these demonstrations by are four I'd go out I'd leave this one going and the 10 ATP.
Well I came back after being out of the house for a while.
This took eight hours the total time estimate it was two hundred hours.
So as you can probably imagine I gave up rendering that one in the end to just just to bear in mind
if rendered time's not important to you and you can leave something rendering on a machine or it's just
the one scene and not an animation.
Sure if it takes 200 hours to do your final scene that's great.
But for the rest of us that need to work on our computers and might need to turn them off to save energy.
That's another big consideration here.
If you're running a computer flatout for 200 hours it's going to cost you a little bit in electricity
as well.
So bearing that all in mind what you do now is move on to the next lecture and start importing some
textures.
See you soon.